That when modeling and Blendr or really any other 3D animation program you've got two modes that you
use one is object mode and one is edit mode or component mode Blendr calls it edit mode in Object mode
you deal with the whole object like we've been doing with the scale rotate and move tools but in edit
mode you actually deal with the components that make up the object.
So if I come down here and click on this object mode I can click Edit mode and now you can see that
we've changed the look of the object.
We get new tools in the Tools panel over here.
We get some new features over here in the properties panel as well.
Now everything is selected here and that's one thing I haven't talked about is how do you de-select
an object or how do you de-select anything.
And that's the key.
If you press the key that will toggle selection off.
And if I press the key again that will toggle your selection back on when you're in Object mode I'll
switch back to object mode here.
That will toggle the selection of everything in the scene so if I hit the A key it will toggle the selection
off.
But if I hit it again it will toggle the selection of everything in the scene on I'll hit a one more
time to de-select and then I'll select the cube here.
Now I can switch back to edit mode here or I can also press the tab key so I hit the tab key I'll toggle
into edit mode.
And now I can hit the A key to de-select everything.
So here you can see that we've got several different buttons down here one is for vertex select select
phase select and these are the different components that make up every polygon object.
So I can select a vertex here and now I can move this vertex independently of all the others.
So I select this one and move it.
Now I can do the same thing with edges so I could take this edge and move it up some or faces.
I could take this face and move it up like that.
Now I can also rotate it and scale it.
I'll hit the s key and scale that out or scale it in so in edit mode you're dealing with the actual
components that make up the object.
A polygon is made up of at least three points so this selected face here is a polygon.
It's made up of four points.
So it's a quad or four sided polygon.
The minimum number of points you can have is three or a try and the lines between each of the vertices
is an edge and the space between the edges is a face.
So the geometry of an object is its collection of polygons of vertices edges and faces.
So the question is then how do we add new geometry if we've got vertices edges and faces.
We're going to probably need tools to add more of those to our objects so we can create whatever it
is we're trying to create.
And one of the most basic tools to do that is the extrude tool.
So if I select a face here I guess I'll just keep this one face selected here maybe I'll rotated a bit
like this.
And to extrude that face when I can do is I can come over here and select the extrude region extrude
vertex normal's or individual faces.
I'm going to choose region here and you can see that the shortcut key is e.
So if I click this and then I just drag the mouse up.
I create new geometry on my object and then I'll click to confirm the operation.
So again if I select this and I hit the e key I can click and drag out off of that face.
Now I can scale it I can rotate it and I can move it around.
Now one thing you might notice is that when I'm moving this around the move manipulator is still aligned
to the world axes.
So the move manipulator is pointing straight up and down.
Rather than being in line with the angle of the face well that's because currently we're in a global
transformation we can change that by clicking here and choosing local transformation.
Or we can change it by choosing normal transformation and look at what happens when I change it to normal.
Now the manipulator tool is aligned to the actual face that we've extruded.
And if you notice even if I'm in global mode here if I select a face and hit E for extrude it's going
to go out in the line of the normal or perpendicular to the face.
So what's happening here.
Well there are imaginary things called normal's coming out of each of the faces we can view these imaginary
lines by scrolling here in the properties panel is scroll down here we can select a view the face normal's
by clicking this little button right here display face normal's.
And you can see these little blue green lines coming out of each of the faces.
I can click and drag the size of these to make them a little bigger.
But now you can see this is the direction that each face is going to be extruded in.
So when we change our manipulator tool or our transform orientation from global to normal you can see
that the manipulator aligns with the face normal.
All right so let me switch this back to global and I'll turn these off.
Well we've talked about one modeling tool so far but we can do quite a bit with this.
I'm going to go ahead and press the end key to get out of the properties panel and I'll press the key
to select the object I'll press the tab key to go back into object mode and press the x key to delete
this.
So now that we know the extrude tool let's go ahead and try and create something.
Let's maybe create a book when we come over here to the Create tab and I'll just create a cube.
So here we have our cube.
I'm going to switch to the scale tool and I'll just scale this until it looks about the size of a book
say like that.
Now to begin I'm going to use the extrude tool to extrude in the pages part of this hardcover book someone
or press the tab key.
And now I'm going to select this face shift select this one and I'll shift select this one as well so
I've got three faces selected.
I'll press the key to extrude and instead of moving the mouse at all I'm going to immediately click
and that just creates that extra geometry without doing anything with it.
I haven't moved it.
I haven't scaled it or anything.
But now with the scale tool I'm going to click on this Z-axis and kind of scale down just a bit to create
the hardcover for the book.
So press the transform manipulator and drag that out just a bit.
So I've got the top and the back and the bottom of the binding here.
And now I want to select this face alone and drag it back in.
So it's even with the rest of the book so it's flat there.
Now I can use my number pad keys and hit the three key.
No.
How about the one key.
There we go.
I hit the one key to move to the front of you and I'll press the five key to go to orthographic now
and now I can see if I've got this lined up.
So that's the one key on the number pad.
I can hit the three key now and spin around or I can click the middle mouse button and tumble back around
here.
Now you can see by the lack of perspective that I'm in orthographic mode.
I'll just hit the five key to go back to perspective.
And then we have the beginnings of our book I'm going to select this face this face and this one again
by shift selecting these.
And now what I'd like to do is extrude and push these in to get the sense that there are pages to the
book.
So now what I'm going to do is press the key again press.
And once again I'm not going to move the mouse at all I'm just going to click go to the scale tool.
And in the y axis here I'm just going to scale in just a hair like so.
And then I'll select this one face again.
Go back to the move tool and push in.
Like that I'm going to press the H key and then I'm to press the tab key to get back into object mode.
And now we have a book.
Not tremendously exciting I know but still it's pretty amazing what you can do with just one modeling
tool just the extrude tool.